# IMDB_analysis


## Project Overview

IMDB is the biggest movie rating platform in the world. A significant proportion of users choose to watch movies only after checking ratings and the number of votes of the movie on the IMDB platform. The data IMDB captures is critical to generate insights into what is the public's preference. Which genres make more money, and which genres have good ratings and still have lesser revenue?

The insights generated from the dataset can be monetized as directors can create content viewers want. Once the movie is released, this dataset can also be used to predict the movie's revenue. 


Explore and analyze the dataset to generate findings and insights that drive revenue.


## Data Description

IMDB is one of the most sought-after rating platforms for movies. The data also contains the movie titles, ratings, revenue, year of the content, etc. The data is beneficial in studying the impact of ratings on the movie's revenue. The data is also beneficial in finding correlations between genres, ratings, and revenue.


data_set: The primary dataset used for this analysis is the "IMDB_data_set.csv".


## Tools
	- Googlesheets
	- Colab notebook - PYTHON


## Data Cleaning preparation

In the initial data preparation stage, follwoing task were performed:
  - Data loading and inspection
  - Handling Null values


### Exploratory Data Analysis

EDA invloved exploring the IMDB data to answer key questions, such as:
  - Data Slicing
    - We need to slice and dice the data to get a fair understanding of top earning movies, underrated movies and some additional statistics such as yearly revenue and average ratings.
		- How many movies have revenue higher than 75 million?
		- How many movies have revenue greater than 50 million but rating less than 7?
		- What is the total revenue generated by movies in the year 2015?
		- What is the average rating for the genre adventure in the year 2015?
		- Which year generated the highest revenue?

- Data Analysis
  - Now that we have explored and understood the data, we want to create certain reports from the IMDB dataset. These reports will help the stakeholders analyze which type of movie makes more money. How does the rating of the movie affect the revenue of the movie?
    - Create a genre-level report with metrics average rating, the average number of votes, and average revenue.
    - Create a report to showcase the revenue of each movie, as % revenue concerning the total revenue of the respective genre and year of the movie. For example if a movie ‘ABC’ has genre ‘Action’ and released in 2015, then % revenue will be - (Revenue of the movie ‘ABC’ *100)/ (Total revenue of the genre ‘Action’ in 2015) What is the  % revenue of the movie ‘Split’ in its respective genre and year?
    - How many directors have created movies in the highest number of genres?




### Codes utilized
df[df["Revenue_millions"] > 75]["Title"].count()

df[(df["Revenue_millions"] > 50) & (df["Rating"] <7)]["Title"].count()

df[df["Year"] == 2015]["Revenue_millions"].sum()

df[(df["Genre"] == "Adventure") & (df["Year"] == 2015)]["Rating"].mean()

df_1 = df.groupby( by = "Year")["Revenue_millions"].sum().sort_values(ascending = False)
df_1


df_2 = round(df.groupby(by = 'Genre')["Rating", "Votes", "Revenue_millions"].mean(),2)
df_2


df_revenue_per_year = df.groupby(by = ["Year", "Genre"]).agg({"Revenue_millions" : "sum"})
df_revenue_per_year
df_revenue_per_year.rename(columns = {"Revenue_millions" : "Total_revenue"}, inplace = True)
df_revenue_per_year
df_main = pd.merge(df, df_revenue_per_year, left_on = ["Genre", "Year"], right_on = ["Genre", "Year"], how = "inner")
df_main
df_main["%revenue"] = df_main.apply(lambda x : x["Revenue_millions"]*100/x["Total_revenue"], axis = 1)
df_main[df_main["Title"].isin(["Split"])]


df_dir = df.groupby(by = "Genre")["Director"].count()
df_dir
df_dir_1 = df.loc[df["Genre"] == "Action", :]
df_dir_1
df_dir_1["Director"].nunique()



### Results/Findings:

The analysis results are summarised as follows:
  - 318 movies have revenue higher than 75 million
  - 211 movies have revenue greater than 50 million but rating less than 7
  - Total revenue generated in 2015 was 8854.11 million
  - Average rating of Genre Adventure in 2015 was 6.8
  - Highest revenue was generated in the year 2016 for about 11211.65 million
  - Highest average revenue was generated for "Animation" Genre - 191.22 million
  - Highest average Votes was generated for "Mystery" Genre - 256687.00 votes
  - Highest average Rating was generated for "Biography" Genre - 7.38
  - It was noted 29.42% of %revenue for split movie under Horror genre in the year 2016
  - Highest number of movies were in Action Genere - 276 & it was directed by 185 different directors



### Recommendations:

Based on analysis, following recommendations can be utilized:
  - Out of 872 movies only 318 could cross the 75 million mark, 554 movies ratings & votes to be analyzed for the reason
  - 211 found to be underrated, rating under 7. But still managed to cross 50million mark
  - There is steady & steep growth of revenue in year wise.
  - Sci-Fi & Horror genre to work on their content as average rating is below 6.5
  - Thriller, Sci-Fi & Horror genre need to improve their votes as their vote count is 100000
  - Thriller genre need to improve as it could generate only 0.32 million
  - Animation, action & adventure genre are most liked by the viewers. Directors are recommended to create the content in these genres and avoid genre especially Thriller.   





 
